In this lesson we're going to continue on
with our introduction
to functions, by looking at the next part
of working with functions.
The function call.
Let's go back to our program we created in
the last lesson, functions1.py.
If you remember we have two function
definitions.
One function to square a number.
And another function to count the number
of vowels in a string.
So, let's see how to use these functions
in a program.
We'll start out with the square function.
We'll ask the user to Enter a number.
We'll get that number, using the input
function.
Then, we'll create another variable called
the numsquared.
And here's where we will call the function
with our piece of data.
When we call a function, the data that
is provided to the function is called the
argument,
and its very important in a function call,
that
the argument matches the parameter in the
function definition.
So that, if our function definition calls
for a number to be passed
in, then that is actually what the
argument will be is a numeric value.
Without that then everything pretty much
falls apart.
So here's the call to square.
With a number, the variable num, which
will hold a numeric value.
Then what happens is, at the place where
the function is called, the function
definition is executed so, return number
times number is executed.
The value that's returned from the
function, then replaces the function call.
So this value, whatever is, depending on
the number that the user enters.
Then, replaces the function call, and then
is assigned to the variable numsquared.
And then, we can display the result
by sub.
So
let's give it a try.
Let's Exit and Save.
Then call the program,
we'll do a simple 1, 2 squared, 2 squared
equals 4.
Let's run it again, this time let's do 12,
12 squared equals 144.
So that's how the function call works.
A function call can go any place that an
expression is expected.
So we could put inside a print function,
and we can put it on the right hand side
in an assignment statement, and we can use
it in a more complex expression also.
And we'll look at other examples with more
complex function calls, as we go through
the course.
Now, lets exercise the num vowels
function.
So lets comment out our code for working
with the square function.
Now, this time we are gonna ask the user
enter a string, and
we'll call it variable str and it will
just be equal to input.
And then we'll say, there are plus string.
This call's a little more complex, cuz I
want to make sure that
we convert our number returned from
numVowels to a string.
So I tell you what, let's not use the
variable.
Str, that can be kind of confusing.
Let's use strng.
You'll notice that I am purposely trying
to avoid, using the name of the parameter
as the name of the variable where we
collect the return value of the function.
Now, I'm doing that on purpose, to
emphasize
that it doesn't have to be the same.
The parameter is just a variable name.
It's place holder for a value.
Just like NTNRG is the same thing, it's a
place holder orf a value.
In this case a string value.
So there is no real correspondence between
the
parameter name, and the name of the
variable.
That either holds the value or is used in
the function call.
What does matter though is that the data
that is used as
the argument, is the type of data that we
defined for the parameter.
Otherwise we can either get strange
results
or down right errors in our program.
So, let's review what we've done here
before we run the program.
We prompt the user to enter a string.
We get their input, and store it in the
variable strng.
Then we call the function with the
argument strng.
It will execute its code, return a count.
That return value, we replace the function
call.
It will be converted to string so that it
will match up with
the rest of the string and then we'll
display the number of vowels.
So let's Exit and Save.
Let's clear the screen.
And we'll call it.
So we'll do a simple one.
Hello.
There are two in the string, alright so we
left out the word vowels.
Lets go back.
Lets fix that real quick.
There we go.
Exit and Save.
That's run again, op, that's the wrong
one.
There we go.
Hello, has two vowels.
Let's try one more example.
Hello world.
There are three vowels in the string, and
that's correct.
E, O, and O.
So in this lesson, we've learned how to
perform the function, call.
And that's where we ask the program to
execute a
function definition and provide the
required data for that function.
We're ready to move on now to the next
lesson where
we're going to look at, function
definitions that have multiple parameters.
Both of the function definitions we've
seen so
far, square and num vowels, have had one
parameter.
Number for square, and string for num
vowels.
But function definitions can have multiple
parameters.
In the next lesson we're going to see how
to do that.